.TH ASTERISM 1 "2026-06-13" "asterism v1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
asterism \- reconstruct Asterisk calls from CEL log files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asterism
\fBanalyze\fR [\fIflags\fR] \fIcel-csv-file\fR [\fIcel-csv-file\fR ...]
.br
.B asterism
\fBanalyze\fR [\fIflags\fR] \fB\-\-cel\-dir\fR \fIdirectory\fR
.br
.B asterism
\fBscan\fR [\fIflags\fR] \fIcel-csv-file\fR [\fIcel-csv-file\fR ...]
.br
.B asterism
\fBscan\fR [\fIflags\fR] \fB\-\-cel\-dir\fR \fIdirectory\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBasterism\fR is a post-mortem call analysis tool for Asterisk PBX systems.
It reads Asterisk CEL (Channel Event Logging) CSV files and, optionally, CDR
(Call Detail Records) and full log files, then reconstructs a navigable
timeline of what happened during each call.
.PP
Events are grouped by \fIlinkedid\fR — the shared identifier Asterisk assigns
to all channels that participate in a single call — and sorted by timestamp.
The output shows which channels were created, which dialplan applications ran,
when bridges formed and dissolved, transfer events, hangup causes, and
supporting SIP signaling.
.PP
\fBasterism\fR operates on completed log files only. It is a batch analysis
tool and does not perform live log tailing or real-time monitoring.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B analyze
Render full call timelines. Each call is printed as a block with a summary
header (disposition, caller, callee, duration, hangup cause) followed by a
chronological list of CEL events with offsets from call start.
.TP
.B scan
Identify calls matching suspicious patterns without printing every timeline.
Outputs a list of matching \fIlinkedid\fR values with a one-line reason, and
always prints a summary line including the no-answer rate across all calls.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS analyze flags
.TP
.BI \-\-cdr " path"
CDR Master.csv to merge disposition, duration, and billsec into call headers.
Requires Asterisk CDR with \fIloguniqueid=yes\fR (18-column layout).
.TP
.BI \-\-cel\-dir " path"
Directory of CEL CSV files. All \fB*.csv\fR files are read in alphabetical
order (which is chronological when files are date-named).
.TP
.BI \-\-format " text|json|html|csv"
Output format. Default: \fBtext\fR.
.RS
.TP
.B text
Human-readable timeline with ANSI color when stdout is a TTY.
.TP
.B json
Machine-readable JSON array of call objects.
.TP
.B html
Self-contained HTML report with in-browser search, a clickable call index,
and a Gantt-style SVG timeline per call. No external dependencies.
.TP
.B csv
One row per call: linkedid, start time, duration, result, caller, callee,
hangup cause. Suitable for spreadsheet import.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-output " path"
Write output to a file instead of stdout.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable ANSI color codes in text output.
.TP
.B \-\-ladder
Include an ASCII SIP ladder diagram in text output. The ladder is always
shown in HTML output regardless of this flag.
.TP
.BI \-\-linkedid " id"
Show only the call whose linkedid matches \fIid\fR exactly.
.TP
.BI \-\-channel " name"
Show only calls that contain \fIname\fR as a substring of any channel name.
.TP
.BI \-\-extension " ext"
Show only calls where \fIext\fR appears in any event's extension field.
.TP
.BI \-\-event\-type " types"
Show only events of the specified type(s). Multiple types are
comma-separated (e.g. \fBHANGUP\fR or \fBAPP_START,APP_END\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-from " timestamp"
Show only calls starting at or after \fItimestamp\fR.
Format: \fBYYYY-MM-DD\fR or \fBYYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-to " timestamp"
Show only calls starting at or before \fItimestamp\fR. Same format as \fB\-\-from\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-min\-duration " dur"
Show only calls with a total duration greater than or equal to \fIdur\fR
(e.g. \fB30s\fR, \fB5m\fR, \fB1h30m\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-duration " dur"
Show only calls with a total duration less than or equal to \fIdur\fR.
Same format as \fB\-\-min\-duration\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-hangup\-cause " cause"
Show only calls with the specified hangup cause. Accepts a Q.850 cause name
(e.g. \fBNORMAL_CLEARING\fR) or a numeric code (e.g. \fB16\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-cel\-columns " cols"
Comma-separated CEL column names when your \fIcel_custom.conf\fR differs from
the default 13-column layout. Default order:
.RS
.PP
eventtype, eventtime, calleridnum, calleridname, channel, exten, context,
uniqueid, linkedid, bridgepeer, appname, appdata, eventextra
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-full\-log " path"
Asterisk full log file to correlate with call timelines. When provided,
dialplan log lines are shown alongside CEL events, SIP dialogs are parsed,
and registration failure detection is enabled.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-bad\-lines
Skip malformed CSV rows instead of aborting. A count of skipped rows is
printed to stderr at the end of the run.
.TP
.B \-\-stats
Print aggregate statistics over all calls instead of individual timelines.
Statistics include: total calls, answered/failed/busy counts, average
duration, queue metrics, and no-answer rate.
.SS scan flags
.TP
.BI \-\-cdr " path"
CDR Master.csv. Used for no-answer rate calculation.
.TP
.BI \-\-cel\-dir " path"
Directory of CEL CSV files (reads all \fB*.csv\fR files).
.TP
.BI \-\-cel\-columns " cols"
Comma-separated CEL column names (see \fBanalyze\fR flags above).
.TP
.BI \-\-full\-log " path"
Asterisk full log (required for \fB\-\-codec\-failure\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-bad\-lines
Skip malformed CSV rows instead of aborting.
.TP
.BI \-\-format " text|csv"
Output format. Default: \fBtext\fR. \fBcsv\fR writes a two-column file
(linkedid, reason) to stdout; the summary line is written to stderr.
.TP
.BI \-\-long\-hold " dur"
Flag calls where the bridge duration exceeds \fIdur\fR (e.g. \fB1h\fR, \fB30m\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-many\-transfers " n"
Flag calls with more than \fIn\fR transfer events (attended or blind).
.TP
.B \-\-codec\-failure
Flag calls with codec negotiation or RTP setup failures. Requires
\fB\-\-full\-log\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/log/asterisk/cel-custom/Master.csv
Default CEL output file when using \fIcel_custom.conf\fR with a CSV backend.
\fBasterism\fR expects a 13-column layout (or a custom layout specified via
\fB\-\-cel\-columns\fR). See \fIdocs/asterisk-setup.md\fR for the required
\fIcel_custom.conf\fR configuration.
.TP
.I /var/log/asterisk/cdr-csv/Master.csv
Default CDR output file. Requires \fIloguniqueid=yes\fR in \fIcdr.conf\fR
to produce the 18-column layout that \fBasterism\fR expects.
.TP
.I /var/log/asterisk/full
Asterisk full verbose log. Enable with \fIverbose=3\fR (or higher) in
\fIasterisk.conf\fR and run \fIpjsip set logger on\fR to capture SIP messages.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Render call timelines from a CEL file:
.RS
.PP
.B asterism analyze /var/log/asterisk/cel-custom/Master.csv
.RE
.PP
Analyze multiple rotated CEL files at once:
.RS
.PP
.B asterism analyze monday.csv tuesday.csv wednesday.csv
.RE
.PP
Process an entire directory of rotated CEL files:
.RS
.PP
.B asterism analyze --cel-dir /var/log/asterisk/cel-custom/
.RE
.PP
Enrich with CDR (adds disposition, duration, billsec):
.RS
.PP
.B asterism analyze --cdr /var/log/asterisk/cdr-csv/Master.csv cel.csv
.RE
.PP
Generate a self-contained HTML report:
.RS
.PP
.B asterism analyze --format html --output report.html cel.csv
.RE
.PP
Show only a specific call:
.RS
.PP
.B asterism analyze --linkedid 1779999013.2 cel.csv
.RE
.PP
Filter by date range:
.RS
.PP
.B asterism analyze --from "2026-06-12 16:00:00" --to "2026-06-12 17:00:00" cel.csv
.RE
.PP
Filter by minimum duration and hangup cause:
.RS
.PP
.B asterism analyze --min-duration 60s --hangup-cause NORMAL_CLEARING cel.csv
.RE
.PP
Show aggregate statistics:
.RS
.PP
.B asterism analyze --stats --cdr Master.csv cel.csv
.RE
.PP
Scan for long holds and many transfers, output as CSV:
.RS
.PP
.B asterism scan --long-hold 1h --many-transfers 2 --format csv cel.csv > suspicious.csv
.RE
.PP
Scan for codec and RTP failures using the full log:
.RS
.PP
.B asterism scan --codec-failure --full-log /var/log/asterisk/full cel.csv
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Written by forgetdev.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR asterisk (8),
.BR asterisk.conf (5)
.PP
Project home: \fIhttps://github.com/forgetdev/asterism\fR
.PP
Asterisk CEL documentation: \fIhttps://docs.asterisk.org/Configuration/Reporting/Channel-Event-Logging-CEL/\fR
